Blog : Displaying logged in user on dashboard (#1857)
FlowFuse/website: src/blog/2024/04/displaying-logged-in-users-on-dashboard.md

---
title: Displaying logged in user on Node-RED Dashboard 2.0
subtitle: Step-by-Step Beginner's Guide to Displaying logged in User on Node-RED Dashboard 2.0
description: Learn how to secure your Dashboard, install, and configure the Multi-user addon, and display logged-in users on Node-RED Dashboard 2.0. Additionally, delve deeper into understanding how the Multi-user addon functions.
date: 2024-04-02
authors: ["sumit-shinde"]
image: 
tags:
   - posts
   - dashboard 2.0

---

> A few months ago when Dashboard 2.0 didn't exist, I was searching for customizable solutions with Dashboard 1.0 to build a more user-friendly, customizable, and powerful dashboard. Now Dashboard 2.0 is released, we've gained a more powerful, customizable, and well-maintained Dashboard compared to Dashboard 1.0. Now In this guide, we will explore one of the most powerful features that Dashboard 2.0 offers us. We will create a Multi-user dashboard that will display logged in user information on the dashboard.

Reviewer: Quite a "waffley" opening. Should be refined. Focus on the purpose of this article, having access to user-data within the Dashboard.

<!--more-->

If you're new to Dashboard 2.0, refer to our blog post [Getting Started with Dashboard 2.0](https://flowfuse.com/blog/2024/03/dashboard-getting-started/)

## Enabling Flowfuse User Authentication

> Before we can show user data on the dashboard we need to figure out how we get the data from users. This might seem complicated, but don’t worry about it. FlowFuse offers a feature that not only helps us secure the dashboard but also makes it simpler to get the user data at the dashboard at a later stage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we can show user data on the dashboard we need to figure out how we get the data from users. This might seem complicated, but don’t worry about it. FlowFuse offers a feature that not only helps us secure the dashboard but also makes it simpler to get the user data at the dashboard at a later stage.
```

Very long-winded way of saying _"FlowFuse makes it easy to secure your Node-RED Dashboards, and what is more, that authentication also provides us with contextual data in the Dashboard itself for whom is logged in."_

Reviewer: We should also emphasise, probably _after_ the 3 steps are listed, the consequences of this change - users must now login in order to access the Dashboard.

> 1. Navigate to the instance setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the Instance "settings".
```

> 2. Select the Security tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the "Security" tab.
```

> 3. Enable “Flowfuse user authentication”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enable “Flowfuse User Authentication”
```

> !["Screenshot displaying the configuration settings within the Flowfuse instance, enabling user authentication for enhanced security.
> "](./images/displaying-logged-in-user-flowfuse-instance-setting.png "Screenshot displaying the configuration settings within the Flowfuse instance, enabling user authentication for enhanced security.
> ")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!["Screenshot displaying the configuration settings within the Flowfuse instance, enabling user authentication for enhanced security."](./images/displaying-logged-in-user-flowfuse-instance-setting.png "Screenshot displaying the configuration settings within the Flowfuse instance, enabling user authentication for enhanced security."){data-zoomable}
```

> ## Installing Flowfuse user addon

Reviewer: Move this "Install" step as a subheading of the next "Exploring FlowFuse User Addon" header

1. Click the Node-RED Settings (top-right)
2. Click "Manage Palette"
3. Switch to the "Install" tab
4. Search for `@flowfuse/node-red-dashboard-2-user-addon`
5. Click "Install"

## Exploring the FlowFuse User Addon

> The FlowFuse User Addon is a plugin developed for Dashboard 2.0, leveraging the FlowFuse API to retrieve information about logged in user. In this addon, user information is attached to the `msg` emitted by Dashboard 2.0 nodes. This user information object is attached as `msg._client.user`. Below is an example of how that object looks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The FlowFuse User Addon is a plugin developed for Dashboard 2.0, leveraging the FlowFuse API to retrieve information about logged in user. 

// insert the "install" instructions here

### How it Works

In this addon, user information is attached to the `msg` emitted by Dashboard 2.0 nodes. This user information object is attached as `msg._client.user`. Below is an example of how that object looks:
```

```
   "userId": "", // unique identifier for the user
   "username": "", // FlowFuse Username
   "email": "", // E-Mail Address connected to their FlowFuse account
   "name": "", // Full Name
   "image": "" // User Avatar from FlowFuse
}
```

> Behind the scenes, the user addon is appending the user object to the `msg`, via the SocketIO auth option. We make the socketio object available via a computed [setup](https://dashboard.flowfuse.com/contributing/guides/state-management.html#setup-store) object, this means that we can also access user data in any ui-template widget like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Behind the scenes, the user addon is appending the user object to the `msg`, via the SocketIO auth option. We make the socketio object available via a computed [setup](https://dashboard.flowfuse.com/contributing/guides/state-management.html#setup-store) object, this means that we can also access user data in any ui-template widget with `{{ setup.socketio.auth.user }}`, in the `<template>`, or `this.setup.socketio.auth.user`, in the JS.
```

> ```
> setup.socketio.auth.user
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> When running Node-RED Dashboard 2.0 on FlowFuse, you'll have a new sidebar option in the Node-RED Editor, you just have to navigate to the FF Auth tab and you’ll see two option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running Node-RED Dashboard 2.0 on FlowFuse, you'll have a new tab available in the "Dashboard 2.0" sidebar in the Node-RED Editor, you just have to navigate to the "FF Auth" tab and you’ll see two options.
```

> **Option 1: Include client Data**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Option 1: Include Client Data**
```

By default, this option is enabled. When this option is enabled, an object with user information will be added to the “msg” emitted by any widget of the Node-red Dashboard 2.0.

> **Option 2: Accept client constraints**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Option 2: Accept Client Constraints**
```

A feature that ensures messages are specifically targeted to individual clients, which enhances the precision and security of data transmission within the platform. It determines by enabling the nodes option in the FF Auth tab whether the enabled node type will utilize client data, such as socketid, and restrict communications to only that client.

For example, consider a manufacturing facility where each production line has its own monitoring system. With this feature enabled, data from sensors on Production Line A will only be sent to the monitoring system designated for Production Line A. This ensures that data remains isolated and relevant to each specific area of operation, maintaining organizational efficiency and security.

*Note: Please note that Multi-User Addons can only be used by our Teams and Enterprise Self-Hosted customers. Upon request, we provide all required configurations to get started.*

> !["Screenshot displaying the Flowfuse Muti-user addon option"](./images/displaying-logged-in-user-ff-auth-tab.png "Screenshot displaying the Flowfuse Muti-user addon option")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!["Screenshot displaying the Flowfuse Muti-user addon option"](./images/displaying-logged-in-user-ff-auth-tab.png "Screenshot displaying the Flowfuse Muti-user addon option"){data-zoomable}
```

## Displaying logged in user on Dashboard 2.0

Now you know how the user add on works, you are all set to display logged in user on Dashboard 2.0. To confirm this you can use a `debug` node that receives the `msg` object emitted by the Dashboard 2.0 widgets.

To display user information on the dashboard we will use Vue’s [Teleport](https://dashboard.flowfuse.com/nodes/widgets/ui-template.html#teleports) feature to render content to a specific location in the DOM, we will display user information at the action bar’s right-hand side.

> 1. Drag an ui-template widget onto the canvas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Drag a `ui-template` widget onto the canvas.
```

2. Click on that node, and select type as “Widget (Ui-Scoped)”. ( this allows us to render this ui-template at ui scoped which means I will not required to add separate ui-templates for different pages )
3. Copy the below vue snippet and paste that into the ui-template.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```vue
```

Author: @joepavitt Currently vue is not supported by Prism, here is the list of supported languages https://prismjs.com/#languages-list

        <div class="user-info">
            <!-- Displaying user image -->
            <img :src="setup.socketio.auth.user.image" />
            <!-- Greeting the user -->
            <span>Hi, {{ setup.socketio.auth.user.name }}</span>
        </div>
    </Teleport>
</template>

<script>
export default {
    data() {
        return {
            // Flag to indicate if the component is loaded
            loaded: false
        };
    },
    mounted() {
        // This function is called when the component is inserted into the DOM.
        // Setting loaded to true here ensures the component is ready to access #app-bar-actions,
        // as it's now part of the same DOM structure.
        // Accessing it before mounted() would cause an error because the component wouldn't be initialized in the DOM yet.
        this.loaded = true; // Setting loaded to true to indicate that the component has been mounted successfully
    }
}
</script>

<style>
/* Styling for user info display */
.user-info {
    display: flex;
    align-items: center;
    gap: 8px;
}
/* Styling for user avatar image*/
.user-info img {
    width: 24px;
    height: 24px;
}
</style>
```

## Deploying the flow 

> 1. To initiate the deployment process, locate and click the red 'Deploy' button positioned in the top right corner. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. With your flow updated to include the above, click the "Deploy" button in the top-right of the Node-RED Editor.
```

2. Navigate to `https://<your-instance-name>.flowfuse.cloud/dashboard`.

Now you'll be able to see the profile icon along with a greeting containing your name.

> !["Screenshot of Dashboard displaying logged in user information "](./images/displaying-logged-in-user-dashboard-view.png "Screenshot of Dashboard displaying logged in user information ")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!["Screenshot of Dashboard displaying logged in user information "](./images/displaying-logged-in-user-dashboard-view.png "Screenshot of Dashboard displaying logged in user information "){data-zoomable}
```

---
title: Displaying logged in user on Node-RED Dashboard 2.0
subtitle: Step-by-Step Beginner's Guide to Displaying logged in User on Node-RED Dashboard 2.0
description: Learn how to secure your Dashboard, install, and configure the Multi-user addon, and display logged-in users on Node-RED Dashboard 2.0. Additionally, delve deeper into understanding how the Multi-user addon functions.
date: 2024-04-02
authors: ["sumit-shinde"]
image: 
tags:
   - posts
   - dashboard 2.0

---

A few months ago when Dashboard 2.0 didn't exist, I was searching for customizable solutions with Dashboard 1.0 to build a more user-friendly, customizable, and powerful dashboard. Now Dashboard 2.0 is released, we've gained a more powerful, customizable, and well-maintained Dashboard compared to Dashboard 1.0. Now In this guide, we will explore one of the most powerful features that Dashboard 2.0 offers us. We will create a Multi-user dashboard that will display logged in user information on the dashboard.

<!--more-->

If you're new to Dashboard 2.0, refer to our blog post [Getting Started with Dashboard 2.0](https://flowfuse.com/blog/2024/03/dashboard-getting-started/)

> ## Enabling Flowfuse User Authentication

Reviewer 2: @sumitshinde-84 Please make it Flow**F**use through the whole document.

---
title: Displaying logged in user on Node-RED Dashboard 2.0
subtitle: Step-by-Step Beginner's Guide to Displaying logged in User on Node-RED Dashboard 2.0
description: Learn how to secure your Dashboard, install, and configure the FlowFuse Multi-user addon, and display logged-in users on Node-RED Dashboard 2.0. Additionally, delve deeper into understanding how the FlowFuse Multi-user addon functions.
date: 2024-04-02
authors: ["sumit-shinde"]

> image: 

Reviewer 2: @Yndira-E Can you push a tile?

Reviewer 2: @Yndira-E I think we can merge too when you push, can you update the date too?

Reviewer: @ZJvandeWeg there were a couple of outstanding points I'd raised that hadn't been resolved:

- https://github.com/FlowFuse/website/pull/1857#discussion_r1547887040
- https://github.com/FlowFuse/website/pull/1857#discussion_r1547872440

Author: Hi @joepavitt, I have already updated the intro. Additionally, I have now added a note to emphasize that users must log in to access the Dashboard. Could you please check it?

Reviewer 3: @ZJvandeWeg I just pushed the image

## Installing Dashboard 2.0
To get things started we need to install Dashboard 2.0. 

1. Click the Node-RED Settings (top-right)
2. Click "Manage Palette"
3. Switch to the "Install" tab
4. Search for `@flowfuse/node-red-dashboard`
5. Click "Install"

## Enabling Flowfuse User Authentication 
Before we can show user data on the dashboard we need to figure out how we get the data from users. This may seem like a pain point but don’t worry about it. Flowfuse offers a feature that not only helps us secure the dashboard but also makes it simpler to get the user data at the dashboard at a later stage.

1. Navigate to the instance setting.
2. Select the Security tab.
3. Enable “Flowfuse user authentication”

!["Screenshot displaying the configuration settings within the Flowfuse instance, enabling user authentication for enhanced security.
"](./images/displaying-logged-in-user-flowfuse-instance-setting.png "Screenshot displaying the configuration settings within the Flowfuse instance, enabling user authentication for enhanced security.
")

> ## Installing Flowfuse user addon

Author: Okay, ZJ, I will create the issue.

1. Click the Node-RED Settings (top-right)
2. Click "Manage Palette"
3. Switch to the "Install" tab

> 4. Search for `@flowfuse/node-red-dashboard-2-user-addon`

Reviewer: > Dashboard 2.0 is @flowfuse/node-red-dashboard, but this package name includes a 2?

Yes, if we could change the package name (for a second time), then. I would rename it to `@flowfuse/node-red-dashboard-2`, but not sure, given the impact we had on downloads, etc. previously, if that's a good idea at this point?

All third-party widgets need to contain `node-red-dashboard-2-` [as per the documentation](https://dashboard.flowfuse.com/contributing/widgets/third-party.html#naming-your-widget). 

> addon? Generally they're called packages in NR?

The name change was done [here](https://github.com/FlowFuse/node-red-dashboard-ff-auth/pull/6/files), if I recall correctly, it was a call made by @MarianRaphael and I updated accordingly.

5. Click "Install"

## Exploring the Flowfuse User Addon
Understanding the Flowfuse User Addon can be a bit complex if you're not familiar with the basics of how it works and the type of object it attaches to the msg emitted by Dashboard 2.0 widgets. Therefore, discussing it in a separate section is important.
The Flowfuse User Addon is a plugin developed for Dashboard 2.0, leveraging the Flowfuse API to retrieve information about logged in user. In this addon, user information is attached to the msg emitted by Dashboard 2.0 nodes. This user information object is attached as msg._client.user, Below is an example of how that object looks:

```
   "userId": "", // unique identifier for the user
   "username": "", // FlowFuse Username
   "email": "", // E-Mail Address connected to their FlowFuse account
   "name": "", // Full Name
   "image": "" // User Avatar from FlowFuse
}
```

> Behind the scenes, we're appending our user object to the msg object, via the SocketIO auth option. We make the socketio object available via a computed [setup](https://dashboard.flowfuse.com/contributing/guides/state-management.html#setup-store) object, this means that we can also access user data in any ui-template widget like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Behind the scenes, the user addon is appending the user object to the `msg`, via the SocketIO auth option. We make the socketio object available via a computed [setup](https://dashboard.flowfuse.com/contributing/guides/state-management.html#setup-store) object, this means that we can also access user data in any ui-template widget like this:
```

```
When running Node-RED Dashboard 2.0 on FlowFuse, you'll have a new sidebar option in the Node-RED Editor, you just have to navigate to the FF Auth tab and you’ll see two option

**Option 1: Include client Data**

By default, this option is enabled. When this option is enabled, an object with user information will be added to the “msg” emitted by any widget of the Node-red Dashboard 2.0.

**Option 2: Accept client constraints**

A feature that ensures messages are specifically targeted to individual clients, which enhances the precision and security of data transmission within the platform. It determines by enabling the nodes option in the FF Auth tab whether the enabled node type will utilize client data, such as socketid, and restrict communications to only that client.

For example, consider a manufacturing facility where each production line has its own monitoring system. With this feature enabled, data from sensors on Production Line A will only be sent to the monitoring system designated for Production Line A. This ensures that data remains isolated and relevant to each specific area of operation, maintaining organizational efficiency and security.

> *Note: Please note that Multi-User Addons can only be used by our Teams and Enterprise Self-Hosted customers. Upon request, we provide all required configurations to get started.*

Reviewer 2: @MarianRaphael Do we have an epic to make the 'upon request' go away?

Reviewer 4: Not an epic bit an issue: https://github.com/FlowFuse/flowfuse/issues/3588

!["Screenshot displaying the Flowfuse Muti-user addon option"](./images/displaying-logged-in-user-ff-auth-tab.png "Screenshot displaying the Flowfuse Muti-user addon option")

## Displaying logged in user on Dashboard 2.0

> We are all set to display logged in user on Dashboard 2.0. You can confirm this by printing the msg object emitted by the Dashboard 2.0 widget, which should have attached user information. Use the debug node for this.

Reviewer 2: As the previous paragraph was an explanation, not setting things up, it's IMO better to use a different segway / bridge sentence.

```suggestion
Now you know how the user add on works, you are all set to display logged in user on Dashboard 2.0. To confirm this you can use a `debug` node that receives the `msg` object emitted by the Dashboard 2.0 widgets.
```

1. Drag an ui-template widget onto the canvas.
2. Click on that node, and select type as “Widget (Ui-Scoped)”. ( this allows us to render this ui-template at ui scoped which means I will not required to add separate ui-templates for different pages )
3. Copy the below vue snippet and paste that into the ui-template.

```
<template>
    <!-- Teleporting user info to #app-bar-actions, which is id of actions bars right corners area -->
    <Teleport v-if="loaded" to="#app-bar-actions">
        <div class="user-info">
            <!-- Displaying user image -->
            <img :src="setup.socketio.auth.user.image" />
            <!-- Greeting the user -->
            <span>Hi, {{ setup.socketio.auth.user.name }}</span>
        </div>
    </Teleport>
</template>

<script>
    export default {
        data() {
            return {
                // Flag to indicate if the component is loaded
                loaded: false
            };
        },
        mounted() {

>             // Component is mounted, set loaded to true

Reviewer 2: Can we have a comment that describes when `mounted()` is called and thus why loaded is set to true right after?

Author: Okay, ZJ. I'll add a comment explaining when mounted() is called and why loaded is set to true right after.
